# ENGL7380 final project
This is a project about the William Blake Archive (WBA). The goal of the archive is to act as a one stop shop for Blake’s artworks for scholarly purposes. As the website is both an ongoing digitalizing project and an archiving cite for William Blake’s work, the importance of visualization is crucial for the WBA. 

While the WBA provides scans and photos of Blake’s work, Blake himself uses paintings and illustrations alongside his poems and proses as a method to “visualize” his written works. Both the watercolors and the poems have to be viewed together in order to experience the entirety of Blake’s attempt to break down the wall between visual art and written literature. 

After the transition from SGML to an XML-based website, the WBA’s GitHub page provides encodings of most of the digitalized works of Blake. In the XML files of Songs of Innocence (this project uses Copy B as a starting point due to its popularity), there are detail descriptions of the actions, physical appearance, body postures, age, and gender for all the things that appear on each page. However, there were no color descriptions in the <characteristic> part of the encodings. Yet, in Blake’s work, he often writes about religious resistances and societal issues; he further elevated his work by adding illustrations to the poems. Therefore, a lack of color descriptions of the individual pages is a lack of half of Blake’s work. 
  
In my project, I download the 31-page Songs of Innocence (Copy B) and I upload them to a color picker website. It then generated the HEX and RGB color codes of the top 9 color used per page of Songs of Innocence. 

In this depository, there are 31 jpg files (downloaded directly from WBA) in the “Scans” folder, 31 png files (generated by the color picker website) in the “Palettes” folder, a word document of the generated HEX and RGB value of the 31 pages, and a “Color visualization” pdf that consists of the 31 palettes combined. 
